Let's discuss the hierarchy
within an organization.
It goes from you, the analyst,
to management, all the
way up to executives.
Hierarchy is a great way to
understand stakeholders.
A stakeholder is defined as
an individual or group that has
an interest in the decisions or
activities of an organization.
This is important
for your role as
an entry-level analyst
because the decisions
made on a day-to-day basis by
stakeholders will impact
how you do your job.
Let's focus on stakeholders
who have an interest
in the daily choices
analysts make.
After all, you may be
asked to communicate
your findings to them.
So let's learn a little
bit more about who they
are and the roles they play
in regards to security.
Security threats, risks,
and vulnerabilities can affect
an entire company's
operations from
financial implications
to the loss
of customer data and trust,
the impact of security
incidents are limitless.
Each stakeholder has
a responsibility
to provide input on
the various decisions
and activities of
the security team and
how to best protect
the organization.
There are many stakeholders
that pay close attention to
the security of critical
organizational assets and data.
We're going to focus on
five of those stakeholders:
risk managers; the Chief
Executive Officer,
also known as the CEO;
the Chief Financial Officer,
also known as the CFO;
the Chief Information
Security Officer,
or CISO; and operation managers.
Let's discuss each of these
stakeholders in more detail.
Risk managers are important in
an organization
because they help
identify risks and manage
the response to
security incidents.
They also notify the
legal department
regarding regulatory issues
that need to be addressed.
Additionally, risk managers
inform the organization's
public relations team in
case there is a need to
publish public communications
regarding an incident.
Next, is the Chief
Executive Officer,
also known as the CEO.
This is the highest ranking
person in an organization.
CEOs are responsible for
financial and
managerial decisions.
They also have an
obligation to report to
shareholders and manage the
operations of a company.
So naturally, security is a
top priority for the CEO.
Now, let's discuss the
Chief Financial Officer,
known as the CFO.
CFOs are senior executives
responsible for managing
the financial operations
of a company.
They are concerned
about security from
a financial
standpoint because of
the potential costs of an
incident to the business.
They are also interested in
the costs associated with
tools and strategies that are
necessary to combat
security incidents.
Another stakeholder with an
interest in security is
the Chief Information
Security Officer, or CISO.
CISOs are high-level executives
responsible for developing
an organization's
security architecture
and conducting risk
analysis and system audits.
They're also tasked
with creating
security and business
continuity plans.
Last, we have
operations managers.
Operations managers oversee
security professionals to help
identify and safeguard
an organization from
security threats.
These individuals
often work directly
with analysts as
the first line of
defense when it comes to
protecting the company from
threats, risks, and
vulnerabilities.
They are also generally
responsible for
the daily maintenance
of security operations.
As an entry-level analyst
at a large organization,
it's unlikely that you'll
communicate directly
with the risk manager,
CEO, CFO, or the CISO.
However, the operations
manager will likely
ask you to create communications
to share with those individuals.
Coming up, we'll
focus a bit more on
stakeholders and how to
effectively
communicate with them.